Welcome to Dreamful, the first English diskmag for the Famicom Disk System! Probably...
(I have to make that distinction because of Sunsoft's Nazoler Land series)
The Famicom Disk System (FDS) was released 40 years ago (1986-02-21) with 6 launch titles: Baseball, Golf, Mahjong, Soccer, Super Mario Bros., Tennis, and The Hyrule Fantasy - Zelda no Densetsu (The Legend of Zelda 1). Nazo no Murasamejou, Super Mario Bros. 2, and Volleyball were released in the following months. Games such as Metroid, Hikari Shinwa - Palutena no Kagami (Kid Icarus), and Yume Koujou - Doki Doki Panic (did you know?) would eventually make their way to the west as NES cartridges.
According to FamiWiki, there were 192 commercially released software for the FDS. Third-party support for the FDS was unfortunately on the weaker side compared to the Famicom, but that didn't stop Konami from outpacing Nintendo with strong releases including Akumajou Dracula and Dracula II - Noroi no Fuuin.
Of course, it doesn't make sense to only talk about licensed activity here - the comparatively open nature of Mitsumi's Quick Disk medium lead to a thriving hacking scene. The FDS is also home to: one of the earliest hacks of Super Mario Bros. (Tonkachi Mario), an unofficial port of Family BASIC V2 (Disk BASIC), and a hard-to-ignore quantity of games with NSFW pixel art. Well, maybe blame Hacker International for that last one - I2 was at least trying to move the hobbyist developer scene forward with products such as the Souseiki Fammy and ILine-PC.
...Uhh, where was I? Oh, I guess I should describe what's in this diskmag "issue", now that we've passed the halfway point. (I have no idea if future issues will be made) We have: a primer on the state of FDS R&D in 2026, Disk BASIC, the Namco IPL, the I2 Souseiki Fammy, the Battle Battle League prototype, a review of the brand new game Ravi and Navi, a fun utility to unlock glitched worlds (256W) in FDS SMB1, plus a credits and greets page.
Alright, now is probably the time to talk about myself, the guy on the keys here (both in terms of music & computing). I go by TakuikaNinja online and I've basically become the only person deranged enough to actively do research and development for the FDS these days. I don't even have a flashcart yet - ClusterM's FDSKey has been hard-carrying the hardware deployment process. I really should give myself some time to actually play the FDS library instead of hacking things. (XD)
I hope this little celebration from me inspires at least one other person to get into R&D for this thing.
Remember: It's (current year) and FDS emulation is still not good enough. Drive emulators aren't exempt from this.
The text will loop now...

